the basic problem with working in office
is you're just not in control of your
work environment howdy my name is Matt
and I'm the CEO of automatic the company
behind WordPress comm jetpack and
WooCommerce we're coming up on over 800
employees and they live everywhere from
California to Alabama Mississippi to
where I live in Texas they're also in 67
countries Canada Mexico India New
Zealand some of them choose not even
have a home base there are no mats or
their in RVs are traveling through
Airbnb
there are new places every day week or
month as long as they can find good
Wi-Fi we don't care where they're our
focus on distributor work wasn't
something to happen accidentally it was
a conscious choice in the very beginning
in fact you'll probably notice I don't
use the word remote because it sets up
to expectation there are some people
that are essential some that aren't
I use the word distributed to describe
what we do where everyone is on the
equal playing field I think a
distributed workforce is the most
effective way to build a company the key
is that you have to approach it
consciously when we start a WordPress
many of the first 20 hires for people
who I'd never met in person but we'd
already collaborated online sometimes
for years I wanted to continue that as
the company grew for one simple reason
I believe that talent and intelligence
are equally distributed throughout the
world but opportunity is not in Silicon
Valley you have the big tech companies
phishing from essentially the same small
pond or Bay I'm making the company
distributive we can fish from the entire
ocean instead of hiring someone who grew
up in Japan but now lives in California
you can gain someone who lives works
wakes up in the morning and goes to
sleep every night wherever they are in
the world they bring a different
understanding of that culture and a
different lived experience day to day at
the base of the decision to go
distributed there's a desire to give
people autonomy over how they do that
work unless you're in a role where
specific hours are important you can
make your own schedule everyone can have
a corner office they can have their
windows they can have the food they want
to eat you can choose when there's music
and when there's silence you can choose
what temperature the room should be you
can choose to save the time it's been
commuting every day and put that into
other things that are more important to
you at a strip your workforces ideal for
a technology company but I often get the
question hey this works great for y'all
but what about everyone else
you already have an office there are a
few things you can do to build a
distributed capability first document
everything
in an office it's easy to make decisions
in the moment in the kitchen and the
hall but if people work remotely and
some members of the team are having
those conversations they don't have
access to they'll see these decisions
being made without understanding the why
always leave a trail of where you were
and what you were thinking about this
allows others to pick up where you left
off that's great for line people in
different time zones to interact it's
also great to think about as an
organization involves people leaving in
people joining along those same lines
try to have as much communication as
possible online when everything's shared
in public it allows those new people to
read through and catch up quickly you
also need to find the right tools there
are so many apps and services that help
with day to day communication
videoconferencing project management you
name it if you look around the office
two things that change how you work
probably on objects anymore the things
your access to your computer so test out
and experiment with different tools that
enable collaboration see what works
create productive face-to-face time in a
traditional office you're in the same
place 48 weeks out of the year and you
might have three or four weeks where
you're not together which I to flip that
so we come together for short intense
bursts once a year we do a grand meet-up
where the entire company comes together
for a week it's kind of half for a half
play the primary goal is connecting
people when we leave we want to make
sure that everyone's aligned and on the
same page and that they have a deeper
connection with their colleagues so that
when they work together the rest of the
year they can bring together that
understanding and empathy and the final
practice is give people the flexibility
to make their own work environment every
person in automatic has a co-working
stipend that it can put towards a
co-working space or just to buy coffee
so they don't get kicked out of the
coffee shop we even have one group in
Seattle that decided to pull their
stipends together order to work space on
a fishing pier also when each person
joins the company we give them a home
office stipend this is money they can
invest in getting the right chair the
right monitor the right desk set up so
that they can have the most productive
environment for them today there are
just a few companies that are
distributed first but if you
fast-forward a decade or two
I predict that 90% of companies that are
going to be changing the course of the
world we're gonna function this way and
that companies will evolve to be
distributed first or that they'll be
replaced by those that are as you think
about what you're gonna build next
definitely consider how you can tap
and the global talent give people
autonomy to live and work wherever they
feel they should and still participate
fully in whatever it is that you're
creating together
[Music]